#summary Details on using JMock and EasyMock

=Supported Mock Object Frameworks=

This document contains framework-specific notes.  For general information about using mock objects with !AtUnit, see the [AtUnitTest test anatomy page].

==!EasyMock==

To use !EasyMock in your test, annotate your test class with *`@MockFramework(MockFramework.Option.EASYMOCK)`*:

{{{
// ...

@RunWith(AtUnit.class)
@MockFramework(MockFramework.Option.EASYMOCK) // tells AtUnit to use EasyMock
public class ExampleEasyMockTest {

	@Mock UserDao dao;
	@Stub Logger log;
	
	// ...
}

}}}

When using !EasyMock, fields annotated with *`@Mock`* will be populated with strict mocks, and fields annotated with *`@Stub`* will be populated with nice mocks.  See [http://easymock.org/EasyMock2_3_Documentation.html the EasyMock documentation] for an explanation of the difference.

==JMock==

To use JMock, annotate your test class with *`@MockFramework(MockFramework.Option.JMOCK)`*:

{{{
// ...

@RunWith(AtUnit.class)
@MockFramework(MockFramework.Option.JMOCK) // use JMock for mock objects
public class ExampleJMockTest {

	Mockery mockery;
	@Mock UserDao dao;
	@Stub Logger log;
	
	// ...
}
}}} 

If you have a field of type *`Mockery`*, !AtUnit will populate it with the same `Mockery` it uses to create your mocks and stubs.

Fields annotated with *`@Mock`* are populated with normal JMock mock objects.  Since mocks are useless without the `Mockery`, if you have `@Mock` fields you must also have a `Mockery` field or !AtUnit will throw an exception.

Fields annotated with *`@Stub`* are also populated with mock objects, but the `Mockery` is instructed to ignore them.  The presence of `@Stub` fields does not require the presence of a `Mockery` field.

